Introduction
++++++++++++

Nanotechnology has taken an ever broader space in advancing technologies. Many 
applications and devices are getting smaller, tough maintaining the same functionality or
having this functionality in a cleaner, more precise way. From lasers to computer chips,
from fabrication of lasers to lasers fabricating other devices, the usual demand is more 
precision and more power. Both can usually be improved by reducing spatial dimensions. 
This is also true in the field of photonics, where light is crafted with selected 
properties in small volumes and down to single photons, depending on the demands.
One such application is designing and creating photonic devices able to manipulate small 
amounts of light in nano wires and similar structures cut into gold. Gold is a very 
stable material with not too big absorptions in the near infra-red which is an acceptable
spectral position.
In our group the `EP 5 Uni Würzburg`_ we chemically grow gold platelets which are then 
taken to a focused ion beam milling machine. With a precision down to a few nanometers 
the desired structures are *inscribed* into the gold material and manipulate incident 
photons due to interaction with free electrons, the electro-magnetic field and boundaries
of the material. Where such structures confine the light to a region smaller than the 
wavelength of photons new effects reign the behaviour of them and we are in the plasmonic 
regime.

To be able to create those structures a special chemical synthesis method of gold was 
developed empirically. This generates, contrary to its normal crystalline structure, very 
flat but broad gold platelets. We refer to them as `gold-flakes` or just `flakes`. Their 
quality in this regard is either defined by their aspect ratio or lateral size. The 
higher this aspect ratio is, the better. We want to be able to generate extremely flat 
but wide flakes to have a lot of space and still be able to create wires that are in the 
region of a few nanometers in the radial dimension. The process which creates those slabs 
have been refined by trial and error. They achieve a size of hundreds of micrometers 
while being only tens of nanometers thick. This translates into an aspect ratio of 
:math:`10^4` up to :math:`10^5`. 
Although this is already a enormous improvement compared to a bulk crystal, we want to 
push this aspect ratio even further and understand the underlying mechanisms of the 
growth. The recipe is documented and some parts do have explanations. One big aspect are 
probably the `twin planes` which are defects in the usual fcc-structure of the crystal. 
It is believed that those defects are responsible for changing the binding at the edge of
the flakes and maintaining a high adsorption probability at the edges allowing the flakes
to grow wide but not high, even contrary to the principle of surface minimization.

.. _EP 5 Uni Würzburg: http://bio.physik.uni-wuerzburg.de/startseite/
